server-admin-install.rst, before:

Installing
==========

.. contents::
 :local:

::

  wget {link to tar file}
  tar -zxf {tar file}
  cd smap/install
  sudo ./install.sh

Edit the Apache config files::

  This needs to be done to enable some security checks.   Edit smap.conf and smap-ssl.conf in /etc/apache2/sites-available.  Replace all
  occurences of {hostname} with the domain name that you will be using.  Or delete these rows.

If the installer asks "Which services should be restarted", click ok, accepting the default values.

After the installation script finishes you should be able to logon with your browser using::

  ident: admin
  password: admin

.. note::

  Important!  Due to some security updates you will need to edit the file /etc/apache2/sites-available/smap-ssl.conf.   Replace all
  occurences of {hostname} with the domain name of your server.  This assumes you are using a domain name.

refer to (:ref:`network-encryption`)

Using a different location for files
------------------------------------

By default all files are installed under /smap in the root directory.

To use a different location, or a
different drive, you can either add a symbolic link from /smap to that location or you do not want to put
anything in the / directory then you can specify a different location at install time.

Logical link::

  Before running install, or you can do it after installing and copy the contents of /smap to the new location
  ln -s /smap /new location

Install to a custom location::

  Before running install edit the install.sh script and set "filelocn" to the location that you want to use
  Then run install.sh

Commit message:

advice to change admin password

server-admin-install.rst, after:

Installing
==========

.. contents::
 :local:

::

  wget {link to tar file}
  tar -zxf {tar file}
  cd smap/install
  sudo ./install.sh

Edit the Apache config files::

  This needs to be done to enable some security checks.   Edit smap.conf and smap-ssl.conf in /etc/apache2/sites-available.  Replace all
  occurences of {hostname} with the domain name that you will be using.  Or delete these rows.

If the installer asks "Which services should be restarted", click ok, accepting the default values.

.. note::

  Important!  Due to some security updates you will need to edit the file /etc/apache2/sites-available/smap-ssl.conf.   Replace all
  occurences of {hostname} with the domain name of your server.  This assumes you are using a domain name.

After the installation script finishes you should be able to logon with your browser using::

  ident: admin
  password: admin

.. warning::

  You should change the password of the admin user before loading any data.  Alternatively create a new user with all permissions then delete
  the admin user.

refer to (:ref:`network-encryption`)

Using a different location for files
------------------------------------

By default all files are installed under /smap in the root directory.

To use a different location, or a
different drive, you can either add a symbolic link from /smap to that location or you do not want to put
anything in the / directory then you can specify a different location at install time.

Logical link::

  Before running install, or you can do it after installing and copy the contents of /smap to the new location
  ln -s /smap /new location

Install to a custom location::

  Before running install edit the install.sh script and set "filelocn" to the location that you want to use
  Then run install.sh
